# The Earth Layer

The earth is a hash ring of messaging devices which is responsible for collectively storing messages addressed to a specific inbox for up to a couple of hours from the initial send date. Earth nodes that assist with delayed delivery typically have unmetered egress to the underlying network but typically lack a publicly available IP address due to network address translation (NAT).

When it comes to creating a delay-tolerant network, we had two approaches: either senders help one another with delivering messages directly to the recipient when the recipient comes online, or recipients could hold onto one another's messages until the recipient comes online.

Both approaches have their own tradeoffs: the advantage of having senders (aka anyone with a currently undelivered message) bear responsibility for holding onto messages until they get delivered is that then earth nodes never have to do work unless they've been sending messages. However, online senders would sporatically stop being senders whenever all their queued messages got delivered which would result in churn. Furthermore, some senders might end up perpetually being senders and the set of users who are senders would have no regularity and so it would be much harder to establish collaborative tit-for-tat relationships with other senders. Lastly, recipients would have to connect to a potentially unbounded number of senders which would make the work required to poll for new messages unbounded. 

The disadvantage of having recipients bear responsibility for holding onto one another's undelivered messages is that just existing in the network requires some amount of sustained computational effort in order to receive messages. The upsides are that there is less churn and unpredictability about who is assisting one another with delayed message delivery and it bounds the effort required to poll ones' inbox to be merely polling a constant number of nearest nodes (more than one in case one of the nearby nodes dropped messages/is malicious). Furthermore, tit-for-tat relationships with neighbors are intuitive, and lastly nodes who are always online don't have to participate in any extra efforts. Since the key reason why delay-tolerance is necessary is because of mobile devices who are only online at semi-regular intervals, this ensures that mobile device users can help one another.